Phoenix Project Notes:

4, 5, and 6 of The Phoenix Project:

1)  Why doesn't the main character want Phoenix to launch at the end of the week?
-Because it has not been tested, the development versions are not consistent, they are already having issues with other Sev 1 incidents, and most of the key features, (which made the deployment date so crucial), have been tossed...(although I can’t remember if Bill knows this now or finds out later).

2) Why does he dislike Sarah?
-Sarah does not care about downstream needs, only considers her timelines as relevant, and seems to have no clue or care for the best way to get something deployed. She will blame IT in blanket statements when her timelines are not met. She seems only interested in how she looks to the COO, Steve.

3) What systems will fail if Phoenix has bugs?
-The retail POS systems will fail because Phoenix is an attempt to integrate all sales on all possible platforms and provide crucial customer data. If Phoenix databases are not in line with the retail POSes, the databases will crash due to SQL errors. Everything will have to be done by hand, customers won’t be able to order online—as advertised, and potential sensitive customer data will be exposed to outsiders.

4) Why is Brent involved with the Phoenix Project?  What's his role?
-Brent is the smartest programmer they have and the only one who knows all the systems at the company. Because Brent has been allowed to be pulled in many directions and done work in almost all the tasks within the deployment, he’s the only one who knows the code and systems. He is the constraint and bottleneck. He also causes problems because he makes changes without communicating to anyone, which makes problem solving nigh impossible without Brent.
-Too, since he is so busy, he cannot add to internal KBs, which means no one else can help.

7,8, and 9 of the Phoenix Project:

1) Who is Erik Reid?
-At this point in the reading, Erik Reid is a potential board member whom Bill is supposed to impress with his IT skills so Erik wants to join the Board. In reality, he is a unicorn. He magically has the exact amount of knowledge to perfectly move Bill & his IT toward an agile and lean way of DevOps thinking...within a rather magical amount of time.

2) Why does he take our main character to the production floor?  What is he trying to illustrate?
-Erik does not just give the answers. He does not seem to want to overload the learner. Instead, he wants the learning to happen somewhat organically and takes Bill to the Plant to 'see' what is happening--how production happens. He wants to illustrate how production used to bog down, was inefficient, and lost the company money. Erik uses the history lesson, along with current setup to begin the teaching process of how things can change and how Bill's department is exactly like the old warehouse operations.

3) List the different kinds of work Erik outlines
-Four types: Business Project, Internal IT Projects, Unplanned work, Changes

10, 11, & 12 of The Phoenix Project:

1) What is the 4th category of work?

-Unplanned work

2) Who calls Brent and why?

-He's on a call with an unknown caller troubleshooting the caller's inability to access database information when a second call comes in

-The second caller uses the VP of Logistics name to get Brent focused on another issue with "some critical production database" is back up--replenishment system.

-He is asked who else calls him and he says other IT people with problems they can't fix

3) How do they decide to deal with Brent as a work bottleneck?
-No one is allowed to talk to Brent except Bill, Wes, and Patty
-He is only allowed to work on Phoenix
-The other IT folks are to actually do some work and figure it out
-Kanban board will help them prioritize what goes to whom and when

4) Why weren't 60% of the scheduled changes implemented?
-Many different reason:
couldn't get all the people needed to make changes
needed resources were not available--like SAN storage
outage in progress
needed Brent but he wasn't available
Brent was pulled off everything except Phoenix and quarantined from anyone's access

5) Why couldn't the front-end of the phoenix project code talk to the back-end?
-Because no one opened a firewall port

13,14,15 of the Phoenix Project:

1) What problem do they solve by only permitting code rollouts twice a day?
-Every time they have attempted to fix a bug, they end up introducing new bugs because 
they are using different versions and projects are colliding. By moving code rollouts to twice a day,
developers are accountable and responsible to update information needed by other projects. Things
are more manageable this way.

2) Why are they afraid of the auditors?
-During the work-arounds, customers credit card information is not protected and is visible. To be in compliance, 
the company is not allowed to keep CC information--especially the CVV information. 
They are storing the information in order to captcher sales and the auditors are in the building. 

3) What is a NOC?  (It’s mentioned in the book and we’ve talked about it in class, but you may have to google it)
-Network Operations Center. Central location for company servers and networking equipment.

4) Why do Bill and Chris decide to meet once a week?
-Dick and the board are considering outsourcing IT because Susan has made it seem all IT-related issues are the fault 
of the IT Department. Chris and Bill decide to meet weekly to discuss how to keep this from happening.

16, 17, 18, & 19 of The Phoenix Project:

In one to two paragraphs summarize the technological changes that happen in this chapter.  
What changes are being made to the way Dev and Ops run things?

During another outage emergency, Bill decides to slowly and methodically look at the how 
and why of this unplanned work. He decides to let staff go home and not enact 'all hands on deck' because 
he feels it will not saolve the problem. He decides to go home until a later comm meeting about the
findings. CFO Dick calls Steve and accuses IT of being the cause of the issue and Bill as nonplussed over the emergency. 
When Steve calls Bill and demands he pulls everyone in the office, Bill explains why he was methodically going for the investigative 
approach. Steve gets angry and tries to micromanage Bill and Bill stands his ground, refusing to stay stuck in the same 
mode of operation. Steve refuses to listen and Bill quits.

20, 21, 22, and 23 of the Phoenix Project:

In 1-2 paragraphs, summarize how work changed in these chapters.  
What workflow changes were made and what were the results?

After a few days of all hell breaking loose with Steve trying to micromanage the emergency, Erik and the board step in to give Steve 
an ultimatum: change or go. Steve calls Bill to beg him back and Bill agrees. Steve's first action is to call all the IT heads into a 
feely-touchy, getting-to-know you, plan-of-action meeting. They take a big step and stop all except Phoenix and whatever work is
already in progress. The idea is to decrese work in progress in order to increase output. Chris is going to keep developers from 
throwing their work toward the IT bottleneck and divert whatever personnell can be diverted to the Phoenix project for a two-week 
period. This will also enable more IT Operations folks to be more involved in the pipeline because everything will not solely 
depend on Brent.

While some project owners were upset about their projects being put on hold, Phoenix was being fixed because workers could focus on it.
However, Bill is troubled by what happens when the two-week job freeze is over. How will they decide what work gets done when? How will 
they prevent the issues form happening again? Bill and Erik work together to understand work centers and their effects on work
flow. First, Bill has to understand that work can be released, which does not require Brent because it has been documented, 
standarddized, and/or automated. Secondly, Bill has to get the monitoring project up and running because it is the main thing
that will prevent outages and subsequent escalations to Brent. Preventative measures are most important. Third, Bill has to 
maxamize flow of work, which means monitoring utilization. The higher utilization, the longer the wait time. This means deciding 
if a project will increase value to work flow or security or scalability or throughput. This will be done with the project audit team 
reviewing projects alla kanban boards and deciding their importance that way.

24, 25, 26, and 27 of the Phoenix Project:
In 1-2 paragraphs, summarize how work changed in these chapters.  What workflow changes were made and what were the results?

These four chapters show us the bigger picture, as it's been understood by upper managemenr, and how it is beginning to be understood
by John and the IT team. Both Bill and John begin to undrestand that executives have many company goals that depend on IT but are not 
concise as to exactly what depends on IT or why. This is where Bill begins to understand his need to discover where he has under-scoped 
IT: what actually jeopardizes the business as a whole. Too, he needs to work with Jon to discover where he has over-scoped IT: what is
actually needed of Jon's projects and what are just busy work that does not further the business. Erik introduces the 'Coso Cube', which
focus on internal control objectives.Jon and Bill go to every business process owner on Dick's org list and find out exactly what is 
dependent on IT. Jon also learns what the control environment actually looks like--not just his idea of what is needed. 
What are the value chains?

After interviewing just two directors, Jon and Bill call a meeting with Wes, Patty, and Chris. They come up with a Business Outcomes table
that allows them to see: performance measure, area of it reliance, business risk due to IT, and IT controls relied upon. They really utilize 
the three legged security concept of CIA, (confidentiality, integrity, and availability). With this information, they get Dick to bring IT 
into an area of focus. Previously IT had not been a management business risk area of interest and yet every other area depends on IT.
Further, Jon decides to scrap the entire auditing process, after discovering the IT auditing process was entirely out of scope for any internal 
or financial audits. If it was out of scope, it is pointless bisy work.

In short, by finding where IT risks and busy work occur, they can take steps to reduce technical debt.


